---
layout: post
title: Introduction
description: Introduction to the blogging template
---

This is a minimal working example of a research blog. It is based on templates
I found online, extended with bits and pieces to make it easier to use for
programming language researchers.

## What it does
---

 - It uses `jekyll-scholar` to make it easy to cite papers in a blogpost and/or
   build bibliographies.
 - It has Google Analytics ready for use.
 - It is easy to add Disqus comments to individual posts
 - It has `mathjax` enabled so you can type in some fancy greek.


## Why?
---

I was wanting an easy blog tool to write blog posts about my research. However,
using Wordpress and the linkes requires a webserver which has PHP and whatnot
enabled. I am a researcher. I dont want to spend time configuring that stuff.

Most researchers have a webspace available at their university and can put some
static html files on there. That is what this thing does. You build it, you
rsync it and you are done. Easy.

## Initial setup
---

There is some setup involved to get this blog up and running for you
personally. We will go over each part.

### Comments

To enable comments you will need a Disqus account. Go over to
<https://disqus.com/> and create an account. After you have set that up and have
verified your account you should be able to add Disqus to your website by going
to <https://disqus.com/admin/create/>. Follow the tutorial and then you should
see the code to add Disqus to a universal webpage. An example might look like
the one below. Once you have this code, replace the existing code in
`_includes/comments.html` with yours. Be sure to keep in the `if`-test, this is
what enables you to add them to your site.


~~~ html
<div id="disqus_thread"></div>
<script>
    /**
     *  RECOMMENDED CONFIGURATION VARIABLES: EDIT AND UNCOMMENT THE SECTION BELOW TO INSERT DYNAMIC VALUES FROM YOUR PLATFORM OR CMS.
     *  LEARN WHY DEFINING THESE VARIABLES IS IMPORTANT: https://disqus.com/admin/universalcode/#configuration-variables
     */
    /*
    var disqus_config = function () {
        this.page.url = PAGE_URL;  // Replace PAGE_URL with your page's canonical URL variable
        this.page.identifier = PAGE_IDENTIFIER; // Replace PAGE_IDENTIFIER with your page's unique identifier variable
    };
    */
    (function() {  // DON'T EDIT BELOW THIS LINE
        var d = document, s = d.createElement('script');
        
        s.src = '//christophedetroyer.disqus.com/embed.js';
        
        s.setAttribute('data-timestamp', +new Date());
        (d.head || d.body).appendChild(s);
    })();
</script>
<noscript>Please enable JavaScript to view the <a href="https://disqus.com/?ref_noscript" rel="nofollow">comments powered by Disqus.</a></noscript>
~~~


Assuming you have set all this up you can open up any post from the `_posts`
directory and add a commenting section to the bottom of that post by changing
the header.

A regular post will look something like this:

~~~
---
layout: post
title: My super cool post
---
~~~

If you want comments in the end just change it to the following:

~~~
---
layout: post
title: My super cool post
comments: true
---
~~~

Any management of your comments and/or settings should be taken care of on the Disqus website.


### Google Analytics

To enable analytics you will have to create a free account on
<http://www.google.com/analytics/>. Again, you will get some simple
copy/paste-able code. Replace the code in `_include/google_analytics.html` with
your own code.

Once you have that copied all your webpages will be tracked by the Google
Analytics engine. This is done because of the templating system of Jekyll. If
you head over to `_layout/default.html` page, which is the default template for
_all_ your pages, you will see that there is a line:

`{% raw %}{% include google_analytics.html %}{% endraw %}`

which includes the JavaScript on each page. If you don't want fancy analytics
you can simply turn them off by removing the line from the
`_layout/default.html` page.


### Citations

Citations are a bit of a trick to get working. You can either use them to list
your own publications, or to actually add resources to a webpost. Let's assume
for a moment here I have publications. *Ahum*.

I have a bibtex file named `journals.bib`:

~~~
@inproceedings{pyla2011composing,
 author = {Pyla, Hari K.},
 title = {Composing Locks by Decomposing Deadlocks},
 booktitle = {Proceedings of the ACM International Conference Companion on Object Oriented Programming Systems Languages and Applications Companion},
 series = {OOPSLA '11},
 year = {2011},
 isbn = {978-1-4503-0942-4},
 location = {Portland, Oregon, USA},
 pages = {67--70},
 numpages = {4},
 url = {http://doi.acm.org/10.1145/2048147.2048176},
 doi = {10.1145/2048147.2048176},
 acmid = {2048176},
 publisher = {ACM},
 address = {New York, NY, USA},
 keywords = {concurrent programming, deadlock detection and recovery, program analysis, runtime systems, speculative parallelism and coarse-grain speculation},
} 

@inproceedings{swalens2014towards,
  author    = "Swalens, Janwillem and Marr, Stefan and De Koster, Joeri and Van Cutsem, Tom",
  year      = "2014",
  title     = "Towards Composable Concurrency Abstractions",
  editor    = "Donaldson, Alastair F. and Vasconcelos, Vasco T.",
  booktitle = "{\rm Proceedings 7th Workshop on}
               Programming Language Approaches to Concurrency and Communication-cEntric Software,
               {\rm Grenoble, France, 12 April 2014}",
  series    = "Electronic Proceedings in Theoretical Computer Science",
  volume    = "155",
  publisher = "Open Publishing Association",
  pages     = "54-60",
  doi       = "10.4204/EPTCS.155.8",
}
~~~

To add all all the references listed in the file `journals.bib` into a post I
just have to put `{% raw %}{% bibliography --file journals.bib %}{% endraw %}`
into the post and that will generate the following output.

---

{% bibliography --file journals.bib %}

---

You can also attach a .pdf file to a reference entry as well. First, check the
keyword of the bibtex entry. In my example I have used `pyla2011composing` for
the first reference. Notice that in this git repository there is a directory
named `repository/`. If you put a file in there with the name being a keyword in
any bibtex entry (e.g., `pyla2011composing.pdf`), jekyll will detect this file
and automatically insert a pdf link after the citation.

#### Bibliography

There is a page available to list your own bibliography. This allows you to list
your own publications based on seperate bib files. Check out `bibliography.md`
for more details. Basically the page just generates three seperate bibliography
tables. One for journals, conferences and workshops. You can replace the content
in this files to your liking.

#### Citing

You can cite papers as well from any bibliography {% cite pyla2011composing
--file journals %}. To do so you can take several approaches. Recall that your
blog has a "default" references file. In this particular case it is
`bibliography.bib` which is located in `_bibliography/`. Any entry from that
file can be cited using `{% raw %}{% cite key %}{% endraw %}`. However, if you
want to cite a specific reference from a file you have to specify that file
explicitly. For example, the citation {% cite pyla2011composing --file journals
%} is inserted using `{% raw %}{% cite pyla2011composing --file journals %}{%
endraw %}` because the entry is not present in the default `.bib` file, but in an
arbitrary file called `journals.bib`.


To list all the references that you have listed in a post you have to explicitly
tell Jekyll to generate them. For example, I have cited entries from the file
`journals.bib` so at the end of this post I have inserted `{% raw %}{%
bibliography --cited --file journals %}{% endraw %}`. The `--cited` flag means
that only cited references will be listed and the `--file` specifies the files
from which the imports came. Obviously, if you cite from mutliple files you have
to insert all the files seperately.


### Mathjax

Mathjax is a very powerful Latex renderingtool in JavaScript. However, it is not
as simple as copy-pasting some code in between `$$`. I have provided a few
abstractions (mathpartir in particular) in a file `_includes/mathjaxmacros.html`. If
you want to write using these abstractions, make sure to include them in every
blog post you need them in by adding the `{{ "{% include mathjaxmacros.html "}}%}` directive
to the top of your post.

Then it is somewhat easier to paste mathpartir code in there. To demonstrate,
have the STLC application rule.

{% include mathjaxmacros.html %}

{% raw %}{::nomarkdown}
$$
\inferrule[T-App]
          {\Gamma \vdash t_1 : T_{11} \rightarrow T_{12} \quad \Gamma \vdash t_2 : T_{11} }
          {\Gamma \ \vdash t_1 t_2 : T_{12} }
$$
{:/}{% endraw %}

The above rule has been generated by the following syntax in the post. Note that
there are some nasty prefixed and suffixes to keep the markdown parser in check.


~~~ text
{% raw %}{% include mathjaxmacros.html %}{% endraw %}

{{ "{% raw "}}%}{::nomarkdown}
$$
\inferrule[T-App]
          {\Gamma \vdash t_1 : T_{11} \rightarrow T_{12} \quad \Gamma \vdash t_2 : T_{11} }
          {\Gamma \ \vdash t_1 t_2 : T_{12} }
$$
{:/}{{ "{% endraw "}}%}
~~~


### References

{% bibliography --cited --file journals %}
