---
layout: post
title: How to write a blogpost
description: Introduction to writing a blogpost using Jekyll
comments: true
---

## Basic layout of a blog post

To create a new blogpost its as simple as creating a new file in the `_posts`
directory. The naming scheme is a bit tricky, though. You have create a file
using the scheme `YEAR-MONTH-DAY-title.MARKUP`. For example, this blog is named
`2015-12-14-writing.md`.

Once you have `touch`ed that file you can proceed putting content in it. The
first thing you have to do is create a so-called 'Front Matter'. A silly name
for a header.

The Front Matter for this post, for example is shown below.

~~~
---
layout: post
title: How to write a blogpost
description: Introduction to writing a blogpost using Jekyll
comments: true
---
~~~

The `layout` directive tells Jekyll what kind of page this is. It's the name of
the layout you want to use. Looking at the `_layout` directory we see that we
have `default.html`, `page.html` and `post.html`. The value is just the filename
without extension. For your blogposts this will obviously be `post.html`.

The `title` directive is... the title. The description is used to describe the
content of this page. The blog is configured such that the description will be
used for some minor SEO. You want people to read this stuff, right? Then make it
a good one. And finally the `comments` directive, as explained in the
introduction post [1]({% post_url 2015-12-12-readme %}).

Once you have that set up it's basically just writing blog posts. You can use
the regular Markdown syntax you are used to. Check out a basic markdown guide on
how to do this if you are not familiar.

### Mathjax

Since this blogging template has been setup with some basic MathJax I will spend
a little time on how I have done this and how you can use it.

The mathjax platform, for me in particular, lacked some expresivity. I write a
lot of "greek" and for that I use the `mathpartir` library. Mathjax does not
support this so I have predefined a few macros to mitigate that shortcoming as
much as possible. These are present in the `_include/mathjax.html` file. So when
you want to write more than basic mathjax, in particular, derivation rules and
such, you should alwyas import that file first.

To add some latex to your post you can then use the regular mathjax.

A simple example, that does not require any imports, is the following:

$$This \ is \ \textbf{super} \ \texttt{awesome}$$

which is, in the source code, nothing more than this:

~~~ latex
$$This \ is \ \textbf{super} \ \texttt{awesome}$$
~~~
